# CPE Fall Detection Module for M5Stack Core2

Falls are the leading cause of injury-related death among adults age 65 and older, and the age-adjusted fall death rate is on the rise. Fall death rates among adults age 65 and older increased about 30% from 2009 to 2018. The age-adjusted fall death rate is 64 deaths per 100,000 older adults (Deaths From Older Adult Falls | Fall Prevention | Injury Center | CDC, n.d.). An estimated 684,000 fatal falls occur each year, making it the second leading cause of unintentional injury death. More unnoticed is the fact that 37.3 million falls that are severe enough to require medical attention occur each year (Falls, 2021). We are addressing this growing problem faced by people who are at risk of collapsing. This group could include diabetic and orthopedic patients in addition to the old age population.

The program aims to detect free fall and sends emergency notifications to friends, family and other correspondents. It will make use of sensors to detect sudden fall and enquire the user about their status. If there is no response within a certain time frame, an SOS signal will be sent to nearby devices. As mentioned earlier, it will help people who are at risk of collapsing seek immediate help. This is important because a lot of times people who collapse, due to complications like seizures, go unnoticed to their family members, which might lead to additional serious injuries or even death. Such repercussions could be prevented if there was a module that automatically detected free fall and sent emergency notification to friends, family and other correspondents.
